telemetry: tracing with telemetry api (#12921)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/gateway-api/index.md

---
title: Configure tracing with Telemetry API
description: How to configure tracing options using Telemetry API.

> weight: 10

Reviewer: This should not be 10.

We have an issue where there are multiple index.md files with the same weight: 10. At least the overview is listed first (it has 1). Normally we have the items sorted in some manner and they have their own weights. If this page should be listed before the others, then this one could be 8 for example. If it should be last, we could make it 40. 

I leave it up to someone to determine if there should be a better order and update the weight of the individual files to get that desired order by updating the weights in the other peer folders.

Author: I update weight to 8,  cause we want end-user use Telemetry API in the future.

Author: BTW, current Skywalking/Zipkin has same weight, will fix it in separated PR.

Reviewer: Thanks for updating the other weights as well.

keywords: [telemetry,tracing]
owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers
test: no
---

Istio provides the ability to configure advanced tracing options,
such as sampling rate and adding custom tags to reported spans.
This task shows you how to customize the tracing options with Telemetry API.

## Before you begin

1.  Ensure that your applications propagate tracing headers as described [here](/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/overview/).

1.  Follow the tracing installation guide located under [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/)
    based on your preferred tracing backend to install the appropriate addon and
    configure your Istio proxies to send traces to the tracing deployment.

## Installation

> Using these features opens new possibilities for managing traces in your environment.

Author: done, thanks!

> In this example, we will send tracing to `zipkin`, make sure it's installed before you start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we will send tracing to `zipkin` so make sure it is installed:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ cat <<EOF > ./tracing.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    enableTracing: true
    defaultConfig:
      tracing: {} # disabled tracing options via `MeshConfig`
    extensionProviders:
    # add zipkin provider
    - name: zipkin
      zipkin:
        service: zipkin.istio-system.svc.cluster.local
        port: 9411
EOF
$ istioctl install -f ./tracing.yaml
{{< /text >}}

### Enable tracing for mesh

> Enable tracing by running following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable tracing by applying the following configuration:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: Telemetry
metadata:
  name: mesh-default
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  tracing:
    - providers:
        - name: "zipkin"
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Customizing Trace sampling

The sampling rate option can be used to control what percentage of requests get

> reported to your tracing system. This should be configured depending upon your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reported to your tracing system. This should be configured based upon your
```
